* Finding Your Way Around Kali 

/bin - basic programs (Is, cd, cat, etc.)
/sbin- system programs (fdisk, mkfs, sysctl, etc)
/etc - configuration flies
/tmp- temporary files (typically deleted on boot)
/usr/bin - applications (apt, neat, nmap, etc.)
/usr/share- application support and data files


* Basic Linux Commands
---

 Listing Files 
 
 ls - List files in directory
ls -ltr - Sort list by last modified. -time -reverse
file - Show info about file. What type of file it is. If it is a binary or text file for example.
cat - Output content of file.
less - Output file but just little bit at a time. Use this one. Not more.
Use /searchterm to search. It is the same command as in vim. n to scroll to next search result. Press q to quit.
more - Output file but just little bit at a time. less is better.

---
Navigating

pwd - Print working directory
cd - Change directory
cd ~ - Change directory to your home directory


---


A little bit of everything
history - Show commands history

----


Working with files
touch - Create a new file.
cp - Copy
mkdir - Make directory.
mkdir -p  Make entire directory structure
rm - Remove file 
rm -rf  Remove recursively and its content. Very dangerous command!

----

Finding Files

Find 
Find is slower than locate but a lot more thorough. You can search for files recursively and with regex and a lot of other features.
# This will send all permissions denied outputs to dev/null.
find / -name file 2>/dev/null

Locate
Locate is really fast because it relies on an internal database. So in order to have it updated you need to run:
sudo updatedb

Then you can easily find stuff like this:
locate filename

Which
Outputs the path of the binary that you are looking for. It searches through the directories that are defined in your $PATH variable.
which bash 

----

Managing Kali Linux Services

SSH Service
The Secure SHell (SSH)
43 service is most commonly used to remotely access a computer, using a
secure, encrypted protocol. The SSH service is TCP-based and listens by default on port 22. To
start the SSH service in Kali, we run systemctl with the start option followed by the service name
(ssh in this example):
kali@kali:-$ sudo systemctl start ssh

If we want to have the SSH service start automatically at boot time (as many users prefer), we
simply enable it using the systemctl command. However, be sure to change the default password
first!
kali@kali:-$ sudo systemctl enable ssh 




HTTP Service

The Apache HTTP service is often used during a penetration test, either for hosting a site, or
providing a platform for downloading files to a victim machine. The HTTP service is TCP-based and 
listens by default on port 80. To start the HTTP service in Kali, we can use systemctl. as we did
when starting the SSH service, replacing the service name with "apache2·:
kali@kali:~S sudo systemctl start apache2 

To have the HTTP service start at boot time, much like with the SSH service, we need to explicitly
enable it with systemctl. and its enable option:
ka1i@kali: ~$ sudo systemctl enable apache2


Most services in Kali Linux are operated in much the same way as SSH and HTTP, through their
service or init scripts. To see a table of all available services, run systemctl with the list-unitfi\es option:
kali@kali:~s systemctl list-unit-files 




